Question Answers 

1. What is the difference between var, let, and const?

Ans --> All of these three are used to declare variable in js. But each of them behaves differently from each other, scope related difference.
Such as var is function scoped and can be redeclared and updated later and this can make the code hard to read, reduces the readability. 
on the other hand , let is block scoped, which means it only exists inside a block where it was declared, curly braces, and outside that we cant find it,
but if we declare it globally, we can access. const is also same as let but it can not be modified or reassigned after initialization once. Thats the core
difference between let and const. Another difference is hoisting. Var is hoisted and initialised with undefined first, and let const do not. They lies in 
the temporal dead zone until declared.


2. What is the spread operator (...)?

Ans --> The spread operator is a modern feature in js which was introduced in ES6. It is used to expand elements from arrays or properties from objects.
It is written using three dots ... and helps make code shorter, cleaner, and easier to understand. With arrays, it allows us to copy elements, merge 
multiple arrays, or pass values separately where needed. It helps us in copying a lot. With objects, it helps copy or combine properties without changing 
the original object. One important point is that it creates a shallow copy, not a deep copy of data. It is commonly used to avoid direct modification of 
original data.For example,if we have two class lists, we can combine them into one using spread.By doing this, we will have both original lists unchanged 
and a new combined list of both of them.So overall, the spread operator improves readability and makes certain data operations easy.


3. What is the difference between map(), filter(), and forEach()?

Ans --> All three map,filter,and forEach are array methods in JavaScript used to work with elements one by one, but their purpose is different.

map is used when we want to transform every element and create a new array based on some rule or logic. basically when we want to do certain operations
with each element and create a new array.

filter is used when we want to select only those elements that match a certain condition and ignore else. We can do it using if else === then push etc. but filter 
makes the filtering more easy. Just one line with condition is enough.

On the other hand, forEach is used only to run a function on each element and it does not return any new array. I use it when I want to call another function
based on each data of the array.

So the main difference is that map and filter return new arrays, but foreach does not return anything useful.
Another difference is their use case: map() is for changing data, filter() is for filtering data, and forEach is for side operations.
They also do not change the original array unless we manually modify it inside the function. For example, if we have a list of student's
semester final exam written marks, we can use map to add quiz marks, assignment marks, presentation marks.
Then, We can use filter to keep only passed students, and use forEach just to print each student's name or load display them in the UI of website.



4. What is an arrow function?

Ans --> An arrow function is a shorter way of writing functions in JavaScript using a shorter and cleaner syntax, nothing else.
I can write function manually like function fun_name(parameters){codes} but with arrow const add = (num1 , num2)=> num1+num2; Enough.

It is written using the arrow symbol and is mostly used for small or simple tasks. If we want to return something after some lines of coding, 
we have to use curly braces, and return keyword, else just for simple taks, no return keyword needed, it automatically returns the value.
Compared to regular functions, arrow functions are easier to read and write in many situations. It can be a bit hard to understand initally, 
because while learning and seeing it for the first time , it took me hours to understand actually what is happening.

One important difference is that arrow functions do not have their own this value. Instead, it take "this" from the surrounding scope where they are created. 
This is a great thing to understand and implement.Because,this makes them very useful in callback function and inside array methods.
For example, if we have a list of prices, we can use an arrow function to quickly calculate discounted values, or the sum of all prices etc.

5. What are template literals?

Ans --> Template literals are a modern way of writing strings in JS using backticks instead of single or double quotes.
They make it easier to create dynamic strings compared to traditional string. One main feature that we use the most is that we can 
directly insert variables and expressions inside the string using ${}. It helps a lot in loading a div or any component's dynamic data from API. 
And we can create new element and append with main html file's selected section dynmically.
It also supports multi line strings without using special characters. Because of this, the code remains readable and becomes easy to understand what is happening.
For example, if we want to show a student’s result, we can directly include the name and marks inside one message after fetching them from apis.
So overall, template literals make string handling simpler and cleaner and the development easier.


